[DOC] Source and sink connector configuration using KafkaConnectors (#4188)
strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator: documentation/modules/deploying/proc-deploying-kafkaconnector.adoc

// assembly-kafka-connect.adoc

[id='proc-deploying-kafkaconnector-{context}']
= Deploying a `KafkaConnector` resource

You can configure and deploy a `KafkaConnector` resource to a Kafka Connect cluster. 
This creates a new connector instance with the specified configuration. 

> This procedure creates a basic `FileStreamSourceConnector` that sends each line of the Kafka license file to a Kafka topic. 

Reviewer: I think if this is an example then it's fine to use the license file (we should just say that the license file is just an example file), but if it's really a procedure we should make the file a placeholder and talk about "each line of a file in the container filesystem". We should also be clear that using these connectors in a container isn't useful for any real world use cases, and provided merely as an example of how to configure a connector. Real world use cases would require the preparation of a connect image containing the connectors to be used.

Author: I consider this as an example. We provide an example KafkaConnector and this procedure illustrates how to use it.

I've added some new content about production use cases, etc.

> You can also create a `FileStreamSinkConnector`.

Reviewer: Again, while we can mention it, we should point out that this basically has no real world use cases in a container environment, as least for the way Strimzi deployed Kafka Connect (or can we mount arbitrary volumes into the connect container now?)

Author: I don't know about the arbitrary volumes, but I added a new note to summarize this. 

NOTE
The `FileStreamSourceConnector` and `FileStreamSinkConnector` are not intended to be run in containers. 
In a production environment, you should prepare container images containing the Kafka Connect connectors that you want to use.

// assembly-kafka-connect.adoc

[id='proc-deploying-kafkaconnector-{context}']
= Deploying the example `KafkaConnector` resource

Strimzi includes an example `KafkaConnector` in `examples/connect/source-connector.yaml`. 
This creates a basic `FileStreamSourceConnector` instance that sends each line of the Kafka license file (an example file source) to a single Kafka topic. 

> You can create a `FileStreamSinkConnector` by copying the example file and then changing the class and configuration. 

Reviewer: There isn't an example file for the sink connector, is there?

Author: No, sadly not. It's awkward to explain to the user to copy the example file.

Reviewer: So just create an example file?

Author: I've added steps to create `examples/connect/sink-connector.yaml` and use `kubectl exec` to read the messages. Please can you take another look.

@tombentley

The following procedure illustrates how to configure Kafka Connect connectors by using the `source-connector.yaml` file as an example. 

[NOTE]
====

> The `FileStreamSourceConnector` and `FileStreamSinkConnector` are not intended to be run in containers. 

Reviewer: It's not so much "not intended" as "there are no sensible use cases for running"

> In a production environment, you prepare container images containing the Kafka Connect connectors, as described in xref:using-kafka-connect-with-plug-ins-{context}[].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a production environment, you prepare container images containing your desired Kafka Connect connectors, as described in xref:using-kafka-connect-with-plug-ins-{context}[].
```

> In a production environment, you should prepare container images containing the Kafka Connect connectors that you want to use.

Reviewer: Please can we link to the procedure for doing this?

Reviewer 2: We have the automatic option now. https://strimzi.io/docs/operators/master/deploying.html#using-kafka-connect-with-plug-ins-str

> In a production environment, you should prepare container images containing the Kafka Connect connectors that you want to use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In a production environment, you prepare container images containing the Kafka Connect connectors that you want to use.
```

  class: org.apache.kafka.connect.file.FileStreamSourceConnector <3>
  tasksMax: 2 <4>
  config: <5>

>     tasks.max: 1500

Reviewer 3: I think this is not really used since this is covered by the `tasksMax` on line 36.

Author: Ah, I see.

    file: "/opt/kafka/LICENSE"

>     topic: my-topic

Reviewer 3: This was here before your PR. But I think the field name should be `topics`? Did I remembered it right @tombentley? I think it should be in all connectors as well, so it might be good to have a callout for it as well.

Reviewer: For the `FileStreamSourceConnector` I think it is `topic` singular (see https://github.com/apache/kafka/blob/trunk/connect/file/src/main/java/org/apache/kafka/connect/file/FileStreamSourceConnector.java#L38), but for _sink_ topics there is also `topics` which names the topics to consume from (https://kafka.apache.org/documentation.html#connect_configuring). Explaining this has got to be worth a digression.

Author: Makes sense, thank you. Just a note that we don't actually provide an example sink connector with Strimzi.

Author: I meant to say, an example `KafkaConnector` for a sink connector.

Author: I've attempted to document both options: `topic` in `FileStreamSourceConnector` and `topics` in `FileStreamSinkConnector`.

  class: org.apache.kafka.connect.file.FileStreamSourceConnector <3>
  tasksMax: 2 <4>
  config: <5>

>     file: "/tmp/my-file" <6>

Reviewer: This one (for the Source) should stay `/opt/kafka/LICENSE`, since its a text file that exists in the container and saves anyone experimenting from having to shell into the container to create their own file.

Author: Gah, how didn't I notice that?!

    # ...
----
+
<1> Name of the `KafkaConnector` resource, which is used as the name of the connector. Use any name that is valid for a Kubernetes resource.
<2> Name of the Kafka Connect cluster to create the connector in.
<3> Full name or alias of the connector class. This should be present in the image being used by the Kafka Connect cluster.
<4> Maximum number of Kafka Connect `Tasks` that the connector can create.
<5> Connector configuration as key-value pairs.
+
The `FileStreamSourceConnector` class accepts the following configuration options:
+

> [cols="4*",options="header",stripes="none",separator=¦]

Reviewer 2: Did we say we should have table titles for accessibility?

Author: Yes, good spot.

<3> Full name or alias of the connector class. This should be present in the image being used by the Kafka Connect cluster.
<4> Maximum number of Kafka Connect `Tasks` that the connector can create.
<5> xref:#kafkaconnector-configs[Connector configuration] as key-value pairs.

> <6> The source connector reads data from the `/opt/kafka/LICENSE` file. 

Reviewer: Perhaps

"This example source connector configuration reads data from the `/opt/kafka/LICENSE` file."

?

Author: Agreed. I've changed the wording.
